# Phenol tRNA Extraction Protocol
@author Jonathan Dain. 
@github https://github.com/Jonathan-Dain-42

This protocol is adapted from the manufacturers instructions on the Zymo Direct-zol-96 MagBead RNA kit. The protocol is found here (https://files.zymoresearch.com/protocols/_r2100_r2101_r2102_r2103_r2104_r2105_direct-zol-96_magbead_rna.pdf).

This is futher modified using information in Johanna Harvey's RNA extraction that can be found here (https://github.com/JAHarvey/RNA-Blood-preservation-extraction)
# Before Starting:
## Safety Information:
- Tri-Reagent contains the compound phenol which is extremely toxic. Therefore this protocol needs to be done inside of a active fume hood for the parts that utilize the Tri-Reagent. 
- In addition the waste of this protocol needs to be disposed of in the proper waste receptical.
# Extraction Setup and Preperations:
## Digital Plate Setup:
1. Using your laptop or lab computer navigate to the VirusPlusLab/Screening/
2. Fill out the template with the sample vials and save with the extraction date (YYYY-MM-DD).
3. Print out the extraction template and the current extraction protocol - if not done already - for use during the extraction. 
## Bead Sterilization:
1. Confirm that you have the correct amount of 3mm steel beads steralized for use in this protocol. 
2. If additional beads need to be steralized, place additional beads in a small autoclave bag and run using the 1st floor autoclave with the HD45 cycle. 
3. Once beads are autoclaved spray with RNA-Zap inside of the biosafety cabinet (room 3204). 
## Buffer Preparation:
1. If not done already: Add 20 ml (R2100, R2101) or 80 ml (R2102, R2103) of isopropanol to the MagBead DNA/RNA Wash 1 concentrate and mix well. 
2. If not done already: Add 30 ml (R2100, R2101) or 120 ml (R2102, R2103) of isopropanol to the MagBead DNA/RNA Wash 2 concentrate and mix well. 
3. If not done already:Reconstitute each vial of lyophilized DNase I with DNase/RNase-Free Water in a conical tube (not provided).  Mix by gentle inversion and store frozen aliquots. 
  a. E1009-A (250 U), add 2.25 ml water  

# Samplpe Preparation:
*Note:* This protocol is designed for use with avian whole blood samples stored in DNA/RNA Shield. 
1. Thaw frozen blood vials inside of BSC1. 
2. Aliquot *100uL* of Blood Stored in DNA/RNA Shield into a sterile 2mL Eppendorf.
3. Add *1uL* of Protienase K solution to each sample. Incubate samples at room temp for 30 minutes. 
4. Move samples from BSC1 to Fume hood (near Moyers lab benches).
5. For a 100uL sample add 100uL of Tri-Reagent. 
6. Add sterile 3mm bead and vortex for 10 minutes.
7. Transfer all liquid from vial to new clean vial.

# RNA Purification:
1. Add equal volume of ethanol (95-100%) to sample lysed in TRI-Reagent, mix via vortex for 30 seconds.
2. Add 20uL MagBinding Beads and mix well for 10 minutes.
3. Transfer tubes/plate to the magnetic stand untill beads have pelleted, then aspirate and discard the cleared supernatant. *Note this must be discarded in the proper waste receptical.*
4. Add 500uL MagBead DNA/RNA Wash 1 and mix well. Pellet the beads, and again discard the supernatant.
5. Add 500uL MagBead DNA/RNA Wash 2 and mix well. Pellet the beads, and again discard the supernatant.
6. Add 500uL ethanol (96-100%) and mix well. Pellet the beads, and again discard the supernatant.
7. 
